- [Instructor] TreeSet is another set implementation
that uses a binary search tree
to organize the elements it stores.
The relationships between two elements is used
to structure the tree that stores data in a TreeSet,
so the collection must have a way to compare
whether an element is greater than, less than,
or equal to another element.
To do this, the TreeSet uses a comparator,
or elements that implement the comparatable interface,
to perform the relational comparison between the elements.
Unlike the other collections we've seen,
the TreeSet uses this relational comparison
to evaluate elements instead of the equals method.
This introduces some challenges
when working with custom objects in a TreeSet.
There can be problems that are unique
to your exact situation, so if you're using custom objects
make sure you refer to the Java docs.
Let's walk through an example
that uses a TreeSet to store integers.
The integer is a great choice for working with the TreeSet
because it has a natural sort order.
This sort order places integers
into an ascending numeric order.
We can get started by declaring a variable
that uses a NavigableSet as its type.
Inside of the set I'm going to store integers,
so I'll specify that as its generic type.
I'm just going to call this set the numberTree,
and then I'm going to use the TreeSet
as my set implementation.
Now, here, I'm going to pass in this list of numbers,
that we've created, into the constructor.
And then I can go ahead and import the types,
and now I have my TreeSet.
All right, now let's start out simple
and we can stream this TreeSet to the console.
So I'll just use the forEach method,
within the stream, and that should print everything out.
Now, watch what happens as I execute this code.
The numbers are placed in ascending order
in accordance with the integer sort order.
Now, we can do some different things from here.
If we wanted to get the set in descending order
we can use the descendingSet method to switch it up,
and you'll notice that now we have our integers
iterated through in descending order
as returned by the descendingSet.
Another method, headSet, allows us to get
all of the integers, in the tree,
that are lower than a particular number,
so, here, I'm going to get a new set
that contains all integers lower than 1,750.
There, you can see that set.
It also has a counterpart, tailSet,
which will give us all numbers
higher than a particular number,
so now we're going to get a set
with numbers greater than 1750.
There's also a subSet that allows us to pick a set
that is between a range of two numbers,
so I'll go ahead and pick all the numbers
between 1750 and 2750.
Now let's watch what happens there.
You'll notice that I got everything
between the two numbers that I provided.
Now there's also methods for getting numbers
within the proximity of another number,
so, here, I'm going to get the number
that is just lower than 750, and that's going to be 500.
There's a counterpart method, here,
higher that we can use that will give us the next number
that is just higher than 750, and that's 1,000.
So that's a quick glance at the TreeSet implementation,
and we got to see a few of those methods
that are available on the NavigableSet.